hey guys this is the audience and
welcome to our tutorial in this tutorial
I'm gonna show you guys how to animate
an object along a path
alright so we'll put this plane he might
open up I'm gonna show you two examples
imagine this plane was a car to animate
a car along the path we have to use what
is called NURBS surface all right we
might have the NURBS surface of the road
anyway I'm just gonna we don't have to
use that but just imagine the middle
surface the world you want to animate
that along a path on the road so it
would be weird to actually draw a Bezier
curve a CV curve or just a pen curve on
the road because it's not live but to be
able to draw a curve on a road you have
to make the road live and imagine this
is the road to make it live you have to
put this little magnet here that says
make the selected object life and just
click on that that enables the object to
be like you be you notice if you have
there like a dark green thing around it
all right dark green border on the NURBS
surface so we've made this life and to
actually draw on this surface we have to
actually go to our curves create a curve
so bank then bang bang bang bang bang
bang bang and and we've actually created
a created curve and we can actually
animate this plane along this path but
that puts a plane why make it applicable
when we can drive on a road like a car
when it can fly all right so we're not
gonna animate this from this on this is
our to the surface by trying to show you
that's how you would do it it was on a
road but it's a play I'm gonna do it a
different way because the plane is gonna
fly and we're gonna draw this curve in
the air and I've got a scene that
already has a curve drawn in there to
save time I'm going to recent files
put that one we don't want to save this
bad boy so but that plane that that
already has occurred so let me just make
this graph disappear the grid disappear
I'm going to get this plane and just
move him on the side so as you can see
that's just a normal curve nothing
special just a normal curve so to
animate along this curve I'm going to
create what is code I'm going to create
what is called locator all right so um
to create a locator just go to create
then you have a locator here so create a
locator you got it locator but then go
to Windows to actually see them properly
because I locate it can be too small
some child depending on our zoomed out
you seen you are you won't be able to
see it so input the locator and you've
got the path so what you're gonna do is
select the path shift select the locator
go to animate then we go to animate then
motion tab then touch to motion path but
just don't say attach to motion motion
path to let me click on this little box
so you can see what exactly is going on
his background so a time range you've
got an option to Circuit where I want to
animate these seen along the time slider
or you have a long start or start and
end specific start and end time and you
also have an option to override emission
all right
animating along the X Y or z axis it's
up to you and if you want to Bank you
can bank it going to between per second
that means very much like leaning Moloch
leaning towards the curve along corners
and stuff so luckily got that and just
say attach
so put that attached then it follows
that this outliner a touch then let's go
there it is animate along the path but
this is not a plane I taught you before
I before like I can't remember how long
ago but I told you how to how to have
traded mother some mother-child
relationship going on in the animation
so the mother controls the kid but the
kid can control the my back that's how
it is in real life anyway so it's the
same in animation too let's create in
anyway let's create a mother ki the
relationship between this mother which
is a locator and the kid which is the
plane so let me just go to my windows
outline again windows outliner and
create click on the air and crouch let
me move him there click on the aircraft
I can't say that word hey James
click on the aircraft also I'll say
plane ok ok Frank click on the plane
middle click drag it down to the locator
let it go then when you do that you can
see the orientation is still the same
alright so what we're gonna do is say ok
this little back go to start of playback
range when you do that the plane
switches flips to the opposite direction
so we're gonna animate this remember I
said animating from I think from Chan I
think to 90 so it's gonna delay for 10
frames so let's go
then so this plane is already animated
is that some SATs on slow gains speed
and slows down at the end so let me show
you exactly how that is it's going to
window by graph editors of eyes we can
ha ha no not in this tutorial anyway
guys let's go to windows animation
editors graph editor frame or if
actually I forgot we put mother
relationship going on some cars a little
mother brings our liner selecting the
locator frame or take a left
pull them bring that in my zoom in so
we'll put this curve so it's it sort of
slowly gains speed then slows down buddy
there the billy there are the speed as
you can see that the speed is constant
constantly increasing that slows down
and all the way to stop which is 9 G
friends so you can meet a click and
actually play with this bad boy if you
want and prolong the the animation if
you want it's up to you by for tutorial
purposes I don't want to keep it too
long I excited to elevated to 90 frames
and again you can actually mess around
with your translations and stuff like
that you I'm sure you've already done
this by now I taught you guys how to do
this a couple of my month ago or
something like that so that's our
animation so close that and yeah that's
our animation guys along the path and
let's go to the next chart